Potential import requirements: numpy, tkinter

To run the program, enter in the terminal: python3 AntColony.py
This will launch the GUI.

Simplified GUI use info:
Select an algorithm option from the 'Algorithm' dropdown menu (explanations for each one can be
found below). Leave all remaining dropdowns as they are - the default settings have been optimized
for your use.
(Note: if you are not using a computer with a display that is smaller than those
found in the aquarium - such as a laptop - then you must select 'Laptop' from the 'Screen' dropdown
menu, otherwise the grid will not output properly for your screen size).
Click the 'Run' button. A loading bar will mark the progress of the run.
Please note that some algorithms might take a long time to finish running (due to the need for
multiple training/evolving episodes).
When the loading bar reaches the end, this means he final day of the run has begun, and it will
begin being output to the screen.

Key:
XX = Ant (note that multiple ants may occupy the same square and appear as just one ant XX)
↑↑,↓↓,←←,→→ = food scent trail (pointing in direction of food). Note that the scents dissipate over
time and will disappear once they drop bellow a certain threshold.
1-9 = unit of food at position
1C-9C = units (in hundreds) of food at position
1K-9K = units (in thousands) of food at position

Quick Explanation:
Our program creates ants that traverse a grid in search of food (using different algorithms).
When they find food, they bring it back to the anthill - leaving a scent trail in their wake to
guide other passing ants to the food - and then head back out to search some more.
They do this one step at a time, 500 steps per day, 10 days per episode (some algorithms will
run multiples episodes, others just one).
The 'Food Delta' field will display the total food delta (food_collected - food_consumed) for the
current episode, and will be reset at the start of each new episode.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Detailed use info:
The GUI has multiple dropdown menus on the top of the screen:
    Algorithm: this is the algorithm used to determine the ants' movements in their search for food,
     as well as the number of ants in the anthill.
     They options are:
            Random - There will be 300 ants. The ants will search randomly.

            Scent Trail - There will be 300 ants. The ants will search randomly unless they find a
            food scent trail left by another ant, in which case they will follow it until they reach
             the food.

            Genetic - There will be 300 ants. The ants will learn how to search using a genetic
            algorithm. There will be a training period before a final run is performed.

            Q-Learning - There will be 300 ants. The ants will learn how to search using a
            q-learning algorithm. There will be a training period before a final run is performed.

            Independent Q-Learning - The number of ants will change from day to day based on a
            q-leaning algorithm. The ants will also learn how to search using a q-learning algorithm
            . The two algorithms will run independently of one-another (1-day on, 1-day off). There
            will be a training period before a final run is performed.

            Simultaneous Q-Learning - The number of ants will change from day to day based on a
            q-leaning algorithm. The ants will also learn how to search using a q-learning algorithm
            . The two algorithms will run together day-by-day. There will be a training period
            before a final run is performed.

    Food Probability: this determines the likelihood of food being added to the grid. There are 3
    options: Low, Medium, High.

    Output Density: this determines how much of the grid will be output, and how small each square
    will be.
    The options are:
        Low - the central 3rd of the grid will be shown, with larger, easier to
     follow square (this option is recommended).
        High - the majority of the grid will be visible, but each square will be very small and
        therefore harder to follow.

    Screen: what size screen does your computer have (required for output formatting purposes).
    The options are:
        Aquarium - one of the monitors from the aquarium (or one of a similar size).
        Laptop - a 13-15 inch laptop screen.

    Playback: the speed at which the final day will be output. There will be 500 frames in the day,
    so a slower speed will take longer. However at a faster speed it will be difficult to follow the
     ants movements. The options are: Slow, Normal (recommended), Fast.

    Num Ants: the number of ants in the colony the previous day.

    Food Delta: this is an output box. Here we will show the total food delta (food_collected -
    food_consumed) for the current episode. Note that this value will changed at the end of each
    day, and will reset when a new episode begins (such as during training for q-learning algorithm)

    Once you have made your selections, click the 'Run' button. A loading bar will mark the progress
     of the run (increasing with each passing day). When the loading bar reaches the end, this means
      the final day of the run has begun, and it will begin being output to the screen.